.\" ProxyPal Serve - Start the proxy server
.\" Man page cho lệnh proxypal serve
.TH PROXYPAL-SERVE 1 "December 2024" "0.1.0" "ProxyPal Manual"
.SH NAME
proxypal-serve \- Start the ProxyPal proxy server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proxypal serve
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B proxypal start
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Start the ProxyPal proxy server. By default, the server runs as a daemon
(background process). Use \fB\-\-foreground\fR to run in interactive mode.
.PP
The proxy server listens on the configured port (default: 8317) and routes
AI API requests to configured providers. It supports OpenAI-compatible API
format, making it work with tools like Cursor, Continue, and Claude Code.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Port to listen on. Overrides the port setting in configuration file.
Default: 8317.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-foreground
Run in foreground instead of daemonizing. Useful for debugging and
when running under systemd.
.TP
.BR \-\-pid\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
PID file path for daemon mode. The PID is written to this file when
the daemon starts and removed on clean shutdown.
Default: \fB/tmp/proxypal.pid\fR.
.SH DAEMON MODE
When running as a daemon (without \fB\-\-foreground\fR):
.IP \(bu 2
Process forks to background
.IP \(bu 2
PID is written to PID file
.IP \(bu 2
Logs are written to systemd journal or configured log file
.IP \(bu 2
Use \fBproxypal stop\fR to terminate
.SH FOREGROUND MODE
When running with \fB\-\-foreground\fR:
.IP \(bu 2
Process runs in current terminal
.IP \(bu 2
Logs are written to stdout/stderr
.IP \(bu 2
Press Ctrl+C to terminate
.IP \(bu 2
Suitable for systemd services with Type=simple
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start in daemon mode (background):
.RS
.B proxypal serve
.RE
.PP
Start in foreground with debug logging:
.RS
.B proxypal serve \-\-foreground \-vv
.RE
.PP
Start on custom port:
.RS
.B proxypal serve \-\-port 9000
.RE
.PP
Use custom config and PID file:
.RS
.B proxypal serve \-\-config /etc/proxypal/config.yaml \-\-pid\-file /var/run/proxypal.pid
.RE
.SH SYSTEMD INTEGRATION
For systemd service, use foreground mode:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/bin/proxypal serve \-\-foreground
ExecStop=/usr/bin/proxypal stop
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Server started successfully (daemon mode) or shutdown cleanly (foreground)
.TP
.B 1
Failed to start (port in use, config error, etc.)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/proxypal/config.yaml
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /tmp/proxypal.pid
Default PID file location.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proxypal (1),
.BR proxypal-config (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH AUTHOR
ProxyPal Team <team@proxypal.dev>
