.\" ProxyPal Config - Configuration management
.\" Man page cho lệnh proxypal config
.TH PROXYPAL-CONFIG 1 "December 2024" "0.1.0" "ProxyPal Manual"
.SH NAME
proxypal-config \- Manage ProxyPal configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proxypal config
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B proxypal cfg
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage ProxyPal configuration files. Create, validate, display, and edit
configuration settings for the proxy server.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS init
Initialize a new configuration file with defaults.
.PP
.B proxypal config init
[\fB\-\-force\fR]
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Overwrite existing configuration file without prompting.
.SS validate
Validate configuration file syntax and values.
.PP
.B proxypal config validate
.PP
Checks for:
.IP \(bu 2
Valid YAML syntax
.IP \(bu 2
Required fields present
.IP \(bu 2
Valid port numbers (1-65535)
.IP \(bu 2
Valid provider configurations
.SS show
Display current configuration in YAML format.
.PP
.B proxypal config show
.SS edit
Open configuration file in default editor.
.PP
.B proxypal config edit
.PP
Uses \fBEDITOR\fR environment variable, defaults to \fBnano\fR.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
The configuration file uses YAML format. Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Server settings
server:
  port: 8317
  host: "127.0.0.1"

# Logging configuration
logging:
  level: info       # debug, info, warn, error
  format: json      # json, text

# Provider settings
providers:
  gemini:
    enabled: true
    timeout: 30
  claude:
    enabled: true
    timeout: 60
  openai:
    enabled: true
  copilot:
    enabled: false
.fi
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.SS Server Section
.TP
.B server.port
Port to listen on. Range: 1-65535. Default: 8317.
.TP
.B server.host
Host address to bind. Default: "127.0.0.1" (localhost only).
Use "0.0.0.0" to listen on all interfaces.
.SS Logging Section
.TP
.B logging.level
Log level: debug, info, warn, error. Default: info.
.TP
.B logging.format
Log format: json (structured) or text (human-readable). Default: json.
.SS Providers Section
Each provider can have:
.TP
.B enabled
Boolean. Enable or disable this provider.
.TP
.B timeout
Request timeout in seconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create default config at ~/.config/proxypal/config.yaml:
.RS
.B proxypal config init
.RE
.PP
Create config at custom location:
.RS
.B proxypal config init \-\-config /etc/proxypal/config.yaml
.RE
.PP
Overwrite existing config:
.RS
.B proxypal config init \-\-force
.RE
.PP
Validate default config:
.RS
.B proxypal config validate
.RE
.PP
Validate specific config file:
.RS
.B proxypal config validate \-\-config /path/to/config.yaml
.RE
.PP
Show current configuration:
.RS
.B proxypal config show
.RE
.PP
Edit configuration in default editor:
.RS
.B proxypal config edit
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/proxypal/config.yaml
Default configuration file location.
.TP
.I /etc/proxypal/config.yaml
System-wide configuration (for service deployment).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PROXYPAL_CONFIG
Override default configuration file path.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor for \fBproxypal config edit\fR. Default: nano.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (config valid, created, or displayed)
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid config, file not found, parse error)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proxypal (1),
.BR proxypal-serve (1),
.BR yaml (5)
.SH AUTHOR
ProxyPal Team <team@proxypal.dev>
