.\" ProxyPal Auth - Authentication management
.\" Man page cho lệnh proxypal auth
.TH PROXYPAL-AUTH 1 "December 2024" "0.1.0" "ProxyPal Manual"
.SH NAME
proxypal-auth \- Manage authentication credentials for AI providers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proxypal auth
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage authentication credentials for various AI providers. Supports multiple
authentication methods including API keys, device code flow (OAuth), and
credential file import.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS add
Add authentication credentials for a provider.
.PP
.B proxypal auth add
[\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR] [\fB\-\-api\-key\fR \fIKEY\fR | \fB\-\-device\-code\fR | \fB\-\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR]
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-provider " " \fIPROVIDER\fR
Provider name. Omit for interactive selection.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-api\-key " " \fIKEY\fR
API key. Use '\-' to read from stdin (more secure).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-device\-code
Use device code flow (OAuth) for authentication.
Supported by: gemini, copilot.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Import credential file (JSON format). Useful for Vertex AI service accounts.
.TP
.BR \-\-client\-id " " \fICLIENT_ID\fR
OAuth client ID for device code flow. Can also be set via
\fBPROXYPAL_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID\fR environment variable.
.SS remove
Remove authentication for a provider.
.PP
.B proxypal auth remove
\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR
.SS list
List all configured authentications.
.PP
.B proxypal auth list
.SS test
Test authentication for a provider (verify credentials work).
.PP
.B proxypal auth test
\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR
.SS import
Import credentials from file or directory.
.PP
.B proxypal auth import
\fIPATH\fR [\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR]
.TP
.I PATH
Path to credential file or directory containing multiple credential files.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-provider " " \fIPROVIDER\fR
Override auto-detected provider.
.SH SUPPORTED PROVIDERS
.TP
.B gemini
Google Gemini API. Supports API key and device code flow.
.TP
.B copilot
GitHub Copilot. Supports device code flow only.
.TP
.B claude
Anthropic Claude API. Supports API key only.
.TP
.B openai
OpenAI API. Supports API key only.
.TP
.B vertex
Google Vertex AI. Supports service account JSON file.
.TP
.B qwen
Alibaba Qwen API. Supports API key only.
.TP
.B codex
OpenAI Codex API. Supports API key only.
.SH SUPPORTED IMPORT FORMATS
.TP
.B JSON
\fB{"api_key": "...", "provider": "..."}\fR
.TP
.B YAML
\fBapi_key: ...\\nprovider: ...\fR
.TP
.B Env
\fBANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...\fR
.TP
.B Vertex
Google service account JSON file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Use device code flow for Gemini (recommended):
.RS
.B proxypal auth add \-\-provider gemini \-\-device\-code
.RE
.PP
Use device code flow for Copilot:
.RS
.B proxypal auth add \-\-provider copilot \-\-device\-code
.RE
.PP
Add Gemini API key directly:
.RS
.B proxypal auth add \-\-provider gemini \-\-api\-key AIzaSy...
.RE
.PP
Add API key from stdin (more secure):
.RS
.B echo 'YOUR_KEY' | proxypal auth add \-\-provider claude \-\-api\-key \-
.RE
.PP
Import Vertex AI service account:
.RS
.B proxypal auth add \-\-provider vertex \-\-file service-account.json
.RE
.PP
Interactive mode (select provider and method):
.RS
.B proxypal auth add
.RE
.PP
Import credentials from file:
.RS
.B proxypal auth import credentials.json
.RE
.PP
Import with provider override:
.RS
.B proxypal auth import \-\-provider claude api-key.json
.RE
.PP
Import from env file:
.RS
.B proxypal auth import .env
.RE
.PP
Import all files from directory:
.RS
.B proxypal auth import ./credentials/
.RE
.PP
List configured authentications:
.RS
.B proxypal auth list
.RE
.PP
Remove authentication:
.RS
.B proxypal auth remove \-\-provider gemini
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/proxypal/auth/
Directory containing authentication credentials.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Authentication error (invalid key, import failed, etc.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proxypal (1),
.BR proxypal-config (1)
.SH AUTHOR
ProxyPal Team <team@proxypal.dev>
